Minutes of Weekly Meeting of the Wavelet Group

Date: Wednesday, December 17th, 2014

Time: Noon to 1 PM

Present: David Concha (remotely), Drazen Fabris, Anupam Goyal, Bonnie Smithson (remotely), Sergio Zarantonello

Presentations:

Bonnie is able to split the full video movie she made into a 10 second segment via an AVISynth script.  She can create a 256 x 256 “cubelet” of 10 seconds duration.  She said that the scripting language is a tiny version of Python.  Python is generated by C++ code.

Serge mentioned that selection of “cubelet” should be based on statistics of the cube.  Then data cube should be loaded in a 3-D arrary and GPU should operate on frames.  He is interested in running a cube of data through the prevailing H.264 standard and seeing what compression ratio we get.  H.264 standard has motion compensation build in for video compression.  We should compare compression by H.264 and our wavelet transform and quantization compression method.

Discussions:

For running Serge’s C-language code in Visual C++ 2010, Anupam described the errors he encountered as follows:

1. Missing standard files (enclosed in < and > brackets) – unistd.h and zlib.h

2. Compilation error of overloaded math operators, which he thought could be due to missing linking of math library (equivalent of “-lm” in compilation on Unix/Linux).

3. Compilation error of number of arguments for functions written by Serge.  He thought these may be syntax errors fixed by specifying the data type of input arguments in function declarations in the header file.

Serge suggested compiling the C-code on Maria’s machine with “gcc –o comp …” and “gcc –o ucomp” to create two executables for compression and reconstruction.  Serge said that ultimately we would like to use not “zlib” but “bzip2”.  Bonnie said that she have done several cases of porting code between Unix/Linux and Visual C++ and so she may have a solution to getting Serge’s C-language code run in Visual C++.

Serge also mentioned the following:

1. Changes are needed in the C-language code so that it processes in 3-D rather that in 2-D which it does now, and for wavelet transform it needs to change from non-standard (more common) approach to standard (less common approach).

2. Cubelets should allow overlapping so that data assembles graciously.

3. For color images, instead of RGB axes, we should look at HSI or other axes.

4. At the conference in March, Ed plans to be a co-presenter with Serge for CUDA portion of the talk.


Drazen mentioned the following:

1. In 3-D compression, video images may move quickly.  These may not compress as well in time-domain.  Serge mentioned that there may be big changes from one frame to the next.  

2. With respect to 2-D vs. 3-D compression, there is 3-D spatial and 3-D temporal compression.
It was also discussed to have an adaptive error correction mechanism.  If error is OK, it passes.  Otherwise, compression parameters are reset.  Serge mentioned that the goal is that for a given error tolerance we should maximize compression.

At present, quantization is with unsigned 256 bits.  It can be changed to 1024 or higher resolution.  The entities should be packed tightly so that we do not lose in quantizing.

Future Work:

Anupam should try to compile Serge’s C-language code on Maria’s machine.  After the meeting, Anupam learned from Serge that for compiling, a “-lz” option should also be specified for “zlib”, along with “-lm” option that is used for linking the Math library.  After the meeting, Anupam can now successfully compile this C-language code on Maria’s machine and create “comp” and “ucomp” executables.

Additional notes from phone conversations between Serge, Boonie, and Anupam:

Serge mentioned that his C-language code processes in 2-D only but takes 4-D data as input.  For 2-D data, the number of time steps (nt) and z dimension (nz) should be set to 1.  For 3-D data, the z dimension (nz) can equal the number of frames and the number of time steps (nt) can be set to 1.  

For specifying various metrics of H.264 compression, Bonnie emailed 11 tabs of choices for setting various parameters to Serge and Anupam.
