Minutes of Weekly Meeting of the Wavelet Group

Date: Wednesday, February 25th, 2015

Time:  From about Noon to about 1:00 PM

Present:  Anupam Goyal, David Concha (remotely), Drazen Fabris, Ed Karrels (remotely), Bonnie Smithson (remotely), Sergio Zarantonello. 

Presentations:  None

Discussions:

Serge described his work with the MatLab code:

1. He did runs with cutoff of about 79%, and number of bins may be around 1000.  He did not use Lloyd’s algorithm because it takes a very long time in MatLab.  He used logarithmic quantization.

2. After wavelet coefficient thresholding at 79%, he rounded the floating point numbers to the nearest integer.  Thus, a better compression ratio results.

3. Serge described his runs with the maximum possible cutoff without considering quantization at all.  Then, number of bins can be thought of as being the numerical range of wavelet coefficients.

Bonnie mentioned the following:

1. With her using lossless TIFF there should be no compression, because DICOM does not compress.

Ed mentioned the following:

1. His code has the option to use Lloyd’s or logarithmic quantization.

2. His code allows overlaps in cubelets.  Serge asked if Ed needs any help with filters to stitch the cubelets together when reconstructing the data.

3. Photron data uses 12 out of 16 bits and abdomen data uses 7 out of 8 bits.

It was mentioned that David’s Lloyd’s algorithm does as many numbers of iterations as needed to give specified error tolerance.

Drazen mentioned that it would be good to have a theoretical description of why 3-D compression is better than 2-D compression.

For Anupam to run 3-D compression vs. 2-D compression tests, an SCU Linux account for him was discussed for this purpose.  Alternatively, Ed can help Anupam install a visualizer on his laptop.  At the time of writing these minutes, these were not being pursued.

It was also discussed if Drazen can provide examples of fluid dynamics where the data grows rapidly.


Future Work:

1. Serge and David plan to work together to convert error control to C version.

2. Serge to send his results from MatLab code, including those where no quantization is done.  This will include parameters used in the runs.

3. References from Anupam should be summarized in PowerPoint slides that emphasize increasing size of scientific data.

4. Anupam should run the test cases for comparing 3-D compression with 2-D compression.  These should have compression ratio vs. error and for about the same error how much is the compression.  At the time of preparing these minutes, Ed completed these runs.

5. Serge plans his contact at nVidia to contact Richard Clay internally, as Bonnie has not heard from Richard.

6. The slides need to be finished.
a. There should be an example included where 3-D compression gives better results that 2-D slice-by-slice compression.  
b. A theoretical description of 3-D compression being better than 2-D compression would be prepared by Serge.
