Minutes of Weekly Meeting of the Wavelet Group

Date: Wednesday, February 18th, 2015

Time:  From about Noon to about 12:40 PM

Present: All connected remotely. Anupam Goyal, Drazen Fabris, Ed Karrels, Bonnie Smithson. 

Presentations:  None

Discussions:

Bonnie mentioned the following:

1. She has three medical datasets – abdomen, coronary, and angio.  Angio has 460 slides of size 512x512.

2. She has converted DICOM files to an image cube and then to a binary file.

3. MatLab format files are there for Ed under a folder.  As Anupam looked in FileZilla, these seem to be under 
“/MedicalVolumeSets/ImageCubes” (though he seems to have heard “ImageDataSets” as the name of directory during 
the meeting).

4. She has not heard back from her contact at nVidia about “Northstar”.  She may need to utilize another contact 
at nVidia, which may be the contact that Serge has. 

Ed mentioned the following:

1. He may be able to directly read the .mov movie file created for Anupam by Craig Gower.  By the time of sending 
these minutes, Ed read that file by reading three bytes for each pixel for Red, Green, and Blue (RGB) and then saving
one value in monochrome of 1 byte that resulted in a file of 0.9 GB.  However, Anupam mentioned that, as per details 
of this file obtained via Apple QuickTime, each pixel should be read as a 16-bit integer in Big Endean format that 
should give a file of 1.8 GB.  Bonnie mentioned in an email to Anupam that this movie has very little change in it 
and so it may not be suitable for our purposes and we may use other data such as obtained thorough Larry.

2. The raw files have absolutely no header.

3. He has both logarithmic and Lloyd’s quantizations running.  This was in response to a question from Drazen.

4. Distortion calculations are in GPU code.

Drazen mentioned that if we are working with raw files, it may be in competition with nVidia.

There was also some discussion of MatLab code.

Future Work:

1. Anupam to email details of seven articles to Drazen, so that he can get PDFs of these through IEEE Explore 
subscription of Santa Clara University libraries.  By the time of sending these minutes, Anupam got these from 
Martin Luther King library and emailed them to the group.

2. Bonnie plans to talk to Larry tonight at 8 PM about getting data samples.

3. Bonnie plans to redo the datasets with lossless TIFFs, so that lossy JPEG is not used.  She plans to save these 
as raw files.
