Minutes of Weekly Meeting of the Wavelet Group

Date: Wednesday, March 11, 2015

Time:  From about Noon to about 1:00 PM

Present:  Anupam Goyal, David Concha (remotely), Ed Karrels (remotely), Bonnie Smithson (remotely), Sergio Zarantonello (remotely).   Ed and David joined half an hour later, due to a misunderstanding about daylight time change.

Presentations: None

Discussions: 

Presentation Slides:

1. Serge has 11 slides excluding the first slide and Ed has 11 slides excluding the last slide about team members.  These should be combined in one presentation.

2. Serge has a new draft for a complete set of slides.  

3. Serge plans to add two more slides one for the macular cube data and other for the energy application.  Macular cube is a harder data to compress than DICOM datasets.

4. Serge categorized the mechanical engineering/casting model dataset as that of material science, as that is more appropriate.  Detecting a flaw in the casting model and maximum error to be set should be discussed.

5. Ed plans to include some discussion of future directions related to performance and sampling in his description of Lloyd’s algorithm.

6. Bonnie mentioned that the title of our talk mentions “high-capability”, which nVidia uses in a specific context.  Serge mentioned that the title cannot be changed because it is already in the conference program.

7. Anupam had suggested to Ed to include an introduction to CUDA in his slides.  Ed mentioned that, in general, the people attending the conference would have a background in CUDA.

8. Anupam suggested that future directions for our work can include applicability of our method to video data.  Serge said that it is premature to get into video compression.

Other Discussions:

1. Serge has hardwired dimensions of the data in the code.

2. For the hill climbing algorithm, a right starting point needs to be determined.  Bonnie feels that instead of starting with an arbitrary starting point, we should find that point first and then maximize the compression ratio.

3. The numbers obtained in table by Ed match the numbers obtained by Serge using the MatLab code, though Serge is using logarithmic quantization.

4. Bonnie mentioned that she would not be able to set up a Mikogo session next meeting.

Future Work:

1. Bonnie should email Serge a description of CT scan about the dataset to be presented in the conference.

2. Bonnie plans to talk to the person who gave the casting model dataset and get a description of the dataset.

3. Bonnie should send the C code and/or describe it via a Mikogo session.

4. Bonnie should send a picture of defects in the casting model to Serge and Ed.

5. Bonnie plans to make signs to tell Serge and Ed during the talk about the remaining time.

